
<h1>Odilon Open Source Object Storage</h2>

<h2>Lightweight and Scalable</h2>
<p>Odilon is a scalable and lightweight <b>Open Source</b> <b>Object Storage</b> that runs on standard hardware.</p>
<p>It is an infrastructure software to be used by applications that need to store large amounts of unstructured digital objects such as pdf, MS Word, XLSX files, backups, videos, photos or audio.</p>
<p>Odilon was designed for enterprise software that needs to store terabytes of medium to large size objects (like photos or pdfs) securely and safely through encryption, replication and redundancy. A typical installation would by 100M pdfs 20KB-30MB each.</p>
<p>It has a simple single-level folder structure similar to the <b>Bucket</b> / <b>Object</b> model of <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/s3 /" target="_blank">Amazon S3</a>. It is small and easy to integrate, offers <b>encryption</b>, data protection and fault tolerance (<b>software RAID </b> and <b>Erasure Codes</b>) and detection of <b>silent data degradation</b>. Odilon also supports <b>version control</b> and <b>master - standby replication over the Internet</b> for disaster recovery and ransomware recovery.</p>
</p>

<h2>Main features</h2>
				<p>
				<ul  class="group-list">
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Scalable Object Storage on commodity disks</li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Developed in Java 11 (uses Spring Boot, OkHttp, Jackson, Metrics, among others) </li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Runs on Linux and Windows</li>				
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  SDK Java 11 for client applications</li >
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  HTTP/S for client server communication</li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  License <a href="https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0" target="_blank">Open Source Apache 2</a>. It can be used for Open Source and commercial projects </li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Encryption <i>at rest</i> (<a href="https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard" target="_blank">AES 256</a>) </li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Integration with Key Management Server <a href="https://www.vaultproject.io/" target="_blank">Hashicorp Vault</a> </li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Simple operation. Adding new disks requires one line in the config file, and an <i>async process</i> sets up disks and replicata data in background</li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Data replication using <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erasure_code" target="_blank">Erasure Coding</a> and <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAID" target="_blank">software RAID</a></li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Data immutability. Odilon supports two storage modes that protect data from deletion, whether accidental or intentional: Read Only and <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Write_once_read_many" target="_blank">WORM</a> (Write Once Read Many) 				 
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Master - Standby architecture with async replication over the web, for disaster recovery, high availability, archival, anti-ransomware protection</li>
				
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Version Control</b></li>
				<li  class="list-item"> &#9632  Tolerates full disk failures</li>
				<li class="list-item"> &#9632 Disk monitoring for silent and slow data degradation detection (<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_degradation" target="_blank" >bit rot detection</a>)</li>
				</ul>
				</p>

<h2>Security</h2>
<h2>Security</h2>
				<p>Odilon keeps objects encrypted (<i><b>Encryption at Rest</b></i>) using modern algorithms such as <a href="https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard" target="_blank">AES-256</a>. Each object has a unique encryption key. In turn, the encryption key of the object can be generated by Odilon or, which is recommended for greater security, by a <b>Key Management Server</b>
				(<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key_management" target="_blank ">KMS</a>)</p>

<p>A KMS is software for generating, distributing, and managing cryptographic keys. It includes <i>back-end</i> functionality for key generation, distribution, and replacement, as well as client-side functionality for injecting keys, storing, and managing keys on devices. Moving key management to KMS prevents application reverse engineering attacks, simplifies operational maintenance, and compliance with security policies and regulations.</p>
<p>Odilon integrates with the KMS Open Source <a href="https://www.vaultproject.io/" target="_blank">Hashicorp Vault</a>.</p>
<p>Communication from source to storage is via <b>HTTPS</b>, which uses encryption to increase the security of data transfers (this functionality requires Java 17. v2 02/2024).</p>

<h2>What Odilon is not</h2>h2>
<b>Odilon is not S3 compatible</b>
Odilon API is way simpler than S3. The only thing it has in common with AWS S3 it that uses the bucket/object methafor to organize the object space.

<b>Odilon is not a Distributed Storage like Cassandra, Hadoop etc.</b>
Odilon supports master-standby architecture for archival, backup and data protection, but it is not a Distributed Storage and it does not support active-active replication.

<b>Odilon is not a File System like GlusterFS, Ceph, ext4, etc.</b>
It uses the underlying file system to stores objects as encrypted files, or in some configurations to break objects into chunks.

<b>Odilon is not a NoSQL database like MongoDB, CouchDB, etc.</b>
It does not use a database engine, Odilon uses its own journaling agent for Transaction Management and only supports very simple queries, ie. to retrieve an object and to list the objects of a bucket filtered by objectname's prefix.

<b>Odilon is not optimized for a very large number of small files</b>
Odilon does not have optimization for lots of small files. The files are simply stored encrypted and compressed to local disks. Plus the extra meta file and shards for erasure coding.
